# MODEL1208280001: MODEL1208280001

## Installation

Download this repository, and install with distutils

`python setup.py install`

Or, install using pip

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/MODEL1208280001.git`

To install a specific version (in this example, from the 2014-09-16 BioModels release)

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/MODEL1208280001.git@20140916`


# Model Notes


Geier2011 - Integrin activation

Rule based model that integrates the available data to test the biololical
hypotheses regarding the role of talin, Dok1 and PIPKI in integrin activation.

This model is described in the article:

[A computational analysis of the dynamic roles of talin, Dok1, and PIPKI for
integrin activation.](http://identifiers.org/pubmed/22110576)

Geier F, Fengos G, Iber D.

PLoS One. 2011;6(11):e24808.

Abstract:

Integrin signaling regulates cell migration and plays a pivotal role in
developmental processes and cancer metastasis. Integrin signaling has been
studied extensively and much data is available on pathway components and
interactions. Yet the data is fragmented and an integrated model is missing.
We use a rule-based modeling approach to integrate available data and test
biological hypotheses regarding the role of talin, Dok1 and PIPKI in integrin
activation. The detailed biochemical characterization of integrin signaling
provides us with measured values for most of the kinetics parameters. However,
measurements are not fully accurate and the cellular concentrations of
signaling proteins are largely unknown and expected to vary substantially
across different cellular conditions. By sampling model behaviors over the
physiologically realistic parameter range we find that the model exhibits only
two different qualitative behaviors and these depend mainly on the relative
protein concentrations, which offers a powerful point of control to the cell.
Our study highlights the necessity to characterize model behavior not for a
single parameter optimum, but to identify parameter sets that characterize
different signaling modes.

This model is hosted on [BioModels Database](http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/)
and identified by:
[MODEL1208280001](http://identifiers.org/biomodels.db/MODEL1208280001) .

To cite BioModels Database, please use: [BioModels Database: An enhanced,
curated and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic
models](http://identifiers.org/pubmed/20587024) .

To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.


